Library is place where all kind of books are available. Intranet Library Management system is a web
based application. This system contains list of all the books and can be accessed by remote users 
concurrently from any where in the campus. But for that users must be registered user. This system 
is three tier architecture.
Client sends requests, on receiving the request the server processes it and extracts the data from 
database and sends the result back to the client. This system provides separate interface and login for librarian, students and faculties. Librarian can modify database.
Users can search for books and renewal books online. They can recommend for new books by just 
sending messages to the librarian from any where in the college. They can view the issue and return
dates of any book and due they have to pay. This system generates reports that can be used in analyz
ing the library performance. Thus the management can take appropriate steps to improve the facilities.

INDEX
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                
1. INTRODUCTION

2. ANALYSIS

2.1 SYSTEM ANALYSIS

2.2 SYSTEM SECIFICATIONS

3. DESIGN APPROACH

3.1 INTRODUCTION TO DESIGN

3.2 UML DIAGRAMS

3.3 DATA FLOW DIAGRAMS

3.4 E-R DIAGRAMS

4. PROJECT MODULES

5. IMPLEMENTATION

4.1 CONCEPTS AND TECHNIQUES

4.2 TESTING

4.2.1 TEST CASES

6. OUTPUT SCREENS

7. CONCLUSION

8. FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS

9. BIBILIOGRAPHY

 INTRODUCTION:

 Library Management System consists of list of records about the management of the details of the 
students and the issues going on and also about some books and all. This is a web-based application. The project has three modules namely- User, Registration, Librarian. According to the Modules the Distributor and Sub Distributors can manage and do their activities in easy manner.
As the modern organizations are automated and computers are working as per the instructions, it 
becomes essential for the coordination of human beings, commodity and computers in a modern organiza
tion. This information helps the distributors to purchase or sale the products very efficiently.

The administrators and all the others can communicate with the system through this project, thus 
facilitating effective implementation and monitoring of various activities of the distributor of a 
supermarket.

SYSTEM ANALYSIS OF LIBRARY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM PROJECT 

1. Existing System

Various problems of physical system are described below :-
·If one is not very careful then there is a possibility of issuing more than one book to a user.
· There is a possibility of issuing a book to a user, whose membership is not there.
· When a user requests for the a book, one has to physically check for the presence of a book in the library
· Answering management query is a time consuming process.  
·Daily keeping a manual record of changes taking place in the library such as book being issued, book being
returned etc can become cumbersome if the Library size is bigger.


2. Proposed System

The LIBRARY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM is a software application which avoids more manual hours in taking 
the book, that need to spend in record keeping and generating reports. Maintaining of user details 
is complex in manual system in terms of agreements, royalty and activities. This all have to be 
maintained in ledgers or books. Co-coordinators needs to verify each record for small information 
also.
·Easy search of book in the online library.
·Avoid the manual work.
·ser need not go to the library for Issue any kind of book, he can renewal the      book online.                                                                                                                                                    
3. Objective of the System

The goal of the system is to bring down the work load with the increased efficiency and to speed up
 the activities. With this it is very easy to process course fee that is collected time to time from
 students who are registered and studying at franchisees.

